shell - program that processes commands and returns output
bash - automatic default shell for mac
terminal - wrapper program that runs the shell
root directory - top most machine hierarchy - usually not touched
Inside root directory - there is the user folder that has all accounts
absolute path - entire path starting from the root directory
relative path - path starting from where I am currently

"cd" - (Change Directory) type in actual folder/app name after cd to go into the directory
"cd ~/Git/Folder/shit" - can replace home directory with tilda
"clear" - clears terminal commands
"cd ~" - home directory 
"ls" - (List)current view
"cd /" - root directory
"pwd" - (Print Working Directories) display absolute path/location of what current directory you are working in
"cd .." - one folder behind - previous folder
"^C" - control C quits the process
"man" - lists all help - putting command name after man shows exactly what the command name does
"mkdir" - makes new folder name is after the command - can make multiple foldernames separated by spaces
"touch" - creates a file - can make multilple files separated by spaces. Can use relative path to make it (touch Folder/filename.js)
"cat" - lets you view the text in the file (prints everything in text here on what the file has)
"echo" - repeats whatever is typed (next word needs to be typed in double quotes - no special characters - used with redirect ">")
    echo "Put text here" > filename.txt - this will COMPLETELY replace text in file
"rm" - removes files - can do multiple files. It does not go to a trash bin. It completely removes it from the desktop
"rmdir" - removes directory ^^ "" (only empty directories) empty folders only
"rm -rf" - removes folder even if it has files - forever.
"open" - opens files or directory/folder - "open" for mac and "start" for windows
"." current
".." previous
"mv" - moving files and folders (mv file.txt ../) ../ - previous. Can also rename (mv file.txt newfile.txt) - if no location is detected then it will rename the file. (mv file.txt ../newfile.txt) - can rename and move at the same time.
"cp" - copy files and folders (cp text.txt test_copy.txt) creates new copies and also sends to new location (cp text.txt test_copy.txt newLocation). cp -r filename folder (for directory)
control a - goes to the beginning
control e - goes to the end
control w - deletes the word to where your cursor is
control u - delete an entire line
alt left/right - jump betweeen words


ls flag:
"ls -a" - lists all - even hidden files
"ls -1l" - prints everything including time and file
"ls -al" - includes hidden files - can combine lists
